Beginner Level Selenium Interview Questions
1. What are the Selenium suite components?
Selenium IDE

It is a Firefox/Chrome plug-in that was developed to 
speed up the creation of automation scripts. 

It records the user actions on the web browser 
and exports them as a reusable script.

Selenium Remote Control (RC)

RC is a server that allows users to 
write application tests in various programming languages. 
The commands from the test script are accepted 
by this server and are sent to the browser 
as Selenium core JavaScript commands. 
The browser then behaves accordingly.

Selenium WebDriver

WebDriver is a programming interface that helps create 
and run test cases. It makes provision to act on web elements. 
Unlike RC, WebDriver does not require an additional server 
and interacts natively with the browser applications.

Selenium Grid

The grid was designed to distribute commands to different machines simultaneously. 
It allows the parallel execution of tests on different browsers and 
different operating systems. 
It is exceptionally flexible and is integrated with other 
suite components for simultaneous execution.

2. What are the limitations of Selenium testing? 
Unavailability of reliable tech support: Since Selenium is an open-source tool, it does not have dedicated tech support to resolve the user queries. 
Tests web applications only: Selenium needs to be integrated with third-party tools like Appium and TestNG to test desktop and mobile applications.
Limited support for image testing.
No built-in reporting and test management facility: Selenium has to be integrated with tools like TestNG, or JUnit among others to facilitate test reporting and management.
May require the knowledge of programming languages: Selenium WebDriver expects the user to have some basic knowledge about programming. 
3. What are the testing types supported by Selenium? 
Selenium supports Regression testing and Functional testing. 

Regression testing - It is a full or partial selection of 
already executed test cases that are re-executed to ensure 
existing functionalities work fine.

The steps involved are - 

Re-testing: All tests in the existing test suite are executed. It proves to be very expensive and time-consuming.
Regression test selection: Tests are classified as feature tests, integration tests,  and the end to end tests. In this step, some of the tests are selected.
Prioritization of test cases: The selected test cases are prioritized based on business impact and critical functionalities.
Functional testing - Functional Testing involves the verification of every function of the application with the required specification. 

The following are the steps involved:

Identify test input
Compute test outcome
Execute test
Compare the test outcome with the actual outcome 






















Enna pannaum nu kelunga after
creating a project 
and normal setup in maven
















